[page:Material] â†’

# [name]

A standard physically based material, using Metallic-Roughness workflow.  
  
Physically based rendering (PBR) has recently become the standard in many 3D
applications, such as [link:https://blogs.unity3d.com/2014/10/29/physically-
based-shading-in-unity-5-a-primer/ Unity],
[link:https://docs.unrealengine.com/latest/INT/Engine/Rendering/Materials/PhysicallyBased/
Unreal] and [link:http://area.autodesk.com/blogs/the-3ds-max-
blog/what039s-new-for-rendering-in-3ds-max-2017 3D Studio Max].  
  
This approach differs from older approaches in that instead of using
approximations for the way in which light interacts with a surface, a
physically correct model is used. The idea is that, instead of tweaking
materials to look good under specific lighting, a material can be created that
will react 'correctly' under all lighting scenarios.  
  
In practice this gives a more accurate and realistic looking result than the
[page:MeshLambertMaterial] or [page:MeshPhongMaterial], at the cost of being
somewhat more computationally expensive. [name] uses per-fragment shading.  
  
Note that for best results you should always specify an [page:.envMap
environment map] when using this material.  
  
For a non-technical introduction to the concept of PBR and how to set up a PBR
material, check out these articles by the people at
[link:https://www.marmoset.co marmoset]:

  * [link:https://www.marmoset.co/posts/basic-theory-of-physically-based-rendering/ Basic Theory of Physically Based Rendering] 
  * [link:https://www.marmoset.co/posts/physically-based-rendering-and-you-can-too/ Physically Based Rendering and You Can Too] 

Technical details of the approach used in three.js (and most other PBR
systems) can be found is this
[link:https://media.disneyanimation.com/uploads/production/publication_asset/48/asset/s2012_pbs_disney_brdf_notes_v3.pdf
paper from Disney] (pdf), by Brent Burley.

## Constructor

### [name]( [param:Object parameters] )

[page:Object parameters] - (optional) an object with one or more properties
defining the material's appearance. Any property of the material (including
any property inherited from [page:Material]) can be passed in here.  
  
The exception is the property [page:Hexadecimal color], which can be passed in
as a hexadecimal string and is `0xffffff` (white) by default.
[page:Color.set]( color ) is called internally.

## Properties

See the base [page:Material] class for common properties.

### <br/> Texture alphaMap; <br/>

The alpha map is a grayscale texture that controls the opacity across the
surface (black: fully transparent; white: fully opaque). Default is null.  
  
Only the color of the texture is used, ignoring the alpha channel if one
exists. For RGB and RGBA textures, the [page:WebGLRenderer WebGL] renderer
will use the green channel when sampling this texture due to the extra bit of
precision provided for green in DXT-compressed and uncompressed RGB 565
formats. Luminance-only and luminance/alpha textures will also still work as
expected.

### <br/> Texture aoMap; <br/>

The red channel of this texture is used as the ambient occlusion map. Default
is null. The aoMap requires a second set of UVs.

### <br/> Float aoMapIntensity; <br/>

Intensity of the ambient occlusion effect. Default is `1`. Zero is no
occlusion effect.

### <br/> Texture bumpMap; <br/>

The texture to create a bump map. The black and white values map to the
perceived depth in relation to the lights. Bump doesn't actually affect the
geometry of the object, only the lighting. If a normal map is defined this
will be ignored.

### <br/> Float bumpScale; <br/>

How much the bump map affects the material. Typical ranges are 0-1. Default is
`1`.

### <br/> Color color; <br/>

[page:Color] of the material, by default set to white (0xffffff).

### <br/> Object defines; <br/>

An object of the form:  
```ts { 'STANDARD': '' }; ```  
This is used by the [page:WebGLRenderer] for selecting shaders.

### <br/> Texture displacementMap; <br/>

The displacement map affects the position of the mesh's vertices. Unlike other
maps which only affect the light and shade of the material the displaced
vertices can cast shadows, block other objects, and otherwise act as real
geometry. The displacement texture is an image where the value of each pixel
(white being the highest) is mapped against, and repositions, the vertices of
the mesh.

### <br/> Float displacementScale; <br/>

How much the displacement map affects the mesh (where black is no
displacement, and white is maximum displacement). Without a displacement map
set, this value is not applied. Default is `1`.

### <br/> Float displacementBias; <br/>

The offset of the displacement map's values on the mesh's vertices. Without a
displacement map set, this value is not applied. Default is `0`.

### <br/> Color emissive; <br/>

Emissive (light) color of the material, essentially a solid color unaffected
by other lighting. Default is black.

### <br/> Texture emissiveMap; <br/>

Set emissive (glow) map. Default is null. The emissive map color is modulated
by the emissive color and the emissive intensity. If you have an emissive map,
be sure to set the emissive color to something other than black.

### <br/> Float emissiveIntensity; <br/>

Intensity of the emissive light. Modulates the emissive color. Default is 1\.

### <br/> Texture envMap; <br/>

The environment map. To ensure a physically correct rendering, you should only
add environment maps which were preprocessed by [page:PMREMGenerator]. Default
is null.

### <br/> Float envMapIntensity; <br/>

Scales the effect of the environment map by multiplying its color.

### <br/> Boolean flatShading; <br/>

Define whether the material is rendered with flat shading. Default is false.

### <br/> Boolean fog; <br/>

Whether the material is affected by fog. Default is `true`.

### <br/> Boolean isMeshStandardMaterial; <br/>

Read-only flag to check if a given object is of type [name].

### <br/> Texture lightMap; <br/>

The light map. Default is null. The lightMap requires a second set of UVs.

### <br/> Float lightMapIntensity; <br/>

Intensity of the baked light. Default is `1`.

### <br/> Texture map; <br/>

The color map. May optionally include an alpha channel, typically combined
with [page:Material.transparent .transparent] or [page:Material.alphaTest
.alphaTest]. Default is null. The texture map color is modulated by the
diffuse [page:.color].

### <br/> Float metalness; <br/>

How much the material is like a metal. Non-metallic materials such as wood or
stone use `0.0`, metallic use `1.0`, with nothing (usually) in between.
Default is `0.0`. A value between `0.0` and `1.0` could be used for a rusty
metal look. If metalnessMap is also provided, both values are multiplied.

### <br/> Texture metalnessMap; <br/>

The blue channel of this texture is used to alter the metalness of the
material.

### <br/> Texture normalMap; <br/>

The texture to create a normal map. The RGB values affect the surface normal
for each pixel fragment and change the way the color is lit. Normal maps do
not change the actual shape of the surface, only the lighting. In case the
material has a normal map authored using the left handed convention, the y
component of normalScale should be negated to compensate for the different
handedness.

### <br/> Integer normalMapType; <br/>

The type of normal map.  
  
Options are [page:constant THREE.TangentSpaceNormalMap] (default), and
[page:constant THREE.ObjectSpaceNormalMap].

### <br/> Vector2 normalScale; <br/>

How much the normal map affects the material. Typical ranges are 0-1. Default
is a [page:Vector2] set to (1,1).

### <br/> Float roughness; <br/>

How rough the material appears. `0.0` means a smooth mirror reflection, `1.0`
means fully diffuse. Default is `1.0`. If roughnessMap is also provided, both
values are multiplied.

### <br/> Texture roughnessMap; <br/>

The green channel of this texture is used to alter the roughness of the
material.

### <br/> Boolean wireframe; <br/>

Render geometry as wireframe. Default is `false` (i.e. render as flat
polygons).

### <br/> String wireframeLinecap; <br/>

Define appearance of line ends. Possible values are "butt", "round" and
"square". Default is 'round'.  
  
This corresponds to the
[link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/lineCap
2D Canvas lineCap] property and it is ignored by the [page:WebGLRenderer
WebGL] renderer.

### <br/> String wireframeLinejoin; <br/>

Define appearance of line joints. Possible values are "round", "bevel" and
"miter". Default is 'round'.  
  
This corresponds to the
[link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D/lineJoin
2D Canvas lineJoin] property and it is ignored by the [page:WebGLRenderer
WebGL] renderer.

### <br/> Float wireframeLinewidth; <br/>

Controls wireframe thickness. Default is `1`.  
  
Due to limitations of the
[link:https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL/specs/gl/glspec46.core.pdf
OpenGL Core Profile] with the [page:WebGLRenderer WebGL] renderer on most
platforms linewidth will always be `1` regardless of the set value.

## Methods

See the base [page:Material] class for common methods.

## Source

[link:https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/blob/master/src/[path].js
src/[path].js]

