[page:Texture] â†’

# DataArrayTexture

Creates an array of textures directly from raw data, width and height and
depth. This type of texture can only be used with a WebGL 2 rendering context.

## Constructor

###  function DataArrayTexture( ): void;

The data argument must be an [link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView ArrayBufferView]. The properties inherited
from [page:Texture] are the default, except magFilter and minFilter default to
THREE.NearestFilter. The properties flipY and generateMipmaps are initially
set to false.

The interpretation of the data depends on type and format: If the type is
THREE.UnsignedByteType, a Uint8Array will be useful for addressing the texel
data. If the format is THREE.RGBAFormat, data needs four values for one texel;
Red, Green, Blue and Alpha (typically the opacity).  
For the packed types, THREE.UnsignedShort4444Type and
THREE.UnsignedShort5551Type all color components of one texel can be addressed
as bitfields within an integer element of a Uint16Array.  
In order to use the types THREE.FloatType and THREE.HalfFloatType, the WebGL
implementation must support the respective extensions OES_texture_float and
OES_texture_half_float. In order to use THREE.LinearFilter for component-wise,
bilinear interpolation of the texels based on these types, the WebGL
extensions OES_texture_float_linear or OES_texture_half_float_linear must also
be present.

## Code Example

This creates a DataArrayTexture where each texture has a different color.

  
```ts  
// create a buffer with color data const width = 512; const height = 512;
const depth = 100; const size = width * height; const data = new Uint8Array( 4
* size * depth ); for ( let i = 0; i < depth; i ++ ) { const color = new
THREE.Color( Math.random(), Math.random(), Math.random() ); const r =
Math.floor( color.r * 255 ); const g = Math.floor( color.g * 255 ); const b =
Math.floor( color.b * 255 ); for ( let j = 0; j < size; j ++ ) { const stride
= ( i * size + j ) * 4; data[ stride ] = r; data[ stride + 1 ] = g; data[
stride + 2 ] = b; data[ stride + 3 ] = 255; } } // used the buffer to create a
DataArrayTexture const texture = new THREE.DataArrayTexture( data, width,
height, depth ); texture.needsUpdate = true;  
```  

## Examples

[example:webgl2_materials_texture2darray WebGL2 / materials / texture2darray]
[example:webgl2_rendertarget_texture2darray WebGL2 / rendertarget /
texture2darray]

## Properties

See the base [page:Texture Texture] class for common properties.

###  Boolean flipY;

Whether the texture is flipped along the Y axis when uploaded to the GPU.
Default is `false`.

###  Boolean generateMipmaps;

Whether to generate mipmaps (if possible) for the texture. Default is `false`.

###  Object image;

Overridden with a object holding data, width, height, and depth.

###  Boolean isDataArrayTexture;

Read-only flag to check if a given object is of type DataArrayTexture.

###  number magFilter;

How the texture is sampled when a texel covers more than one pixel. The
default is [page:Textures THREE.NearestFilter], which uses the value of the
closest texel.  
  
See the [page:Textures texture constants] page for details.

###  number minFilter;

How the texture is sampled when a texel covers less than one pixel. The
default is [page:Textures THREE.NearestFilter], which uses the value of the
closest texel.  
  
See the [page:Textures texture constants] page for details.

###  number unpackAlignment;

`1` by default. Specifies the alignment requirements for the start of each
pixel row in memory. The allowable values are 1 (byte-alignment), 2 (rows
aligned to even-numbered bytes), 4 (word-alignment), and 8 (rows start on
double-word boundaries). See [link:https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-
Refpages/es3.0/html/glPixelStorei.xhtml glPixelStorei] for more information.

###  number wrapR;

This defines how the texture is wrapped in the depth direction.  
The default is [page:Textures THREE.ClampToEdgeWrapping], where the edge is
clamped to the outer edge texels. The other two choices are [page:Textures
THREE.RepeatWrapping] and [page:Textures THREE.MirroredRepeatWrapping]. See
the [page:Textures texture constants] page for details.

## Methods

See the base [page:Texture Texture] class for common methods.

## Source

[link:https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js/blob/master/src/[path].js
src/[path].js]

